---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# What is Angular

Angular is a framework for front-end web application development. Angular is referred to as a framework, not just a library, because it encompasses a set of libraries, a collection of tools, and guidelines.


## Main Features

Its main features include:

- **Modularity**: A complex web application usually requires collaboration among multiple developers, sometimes even between teams or different organizations. Angular's modularity becomes essential for dividing the work and distributing responsibilities.

- **Scalability**: Another fundamental feature for a web application is the ability to expand and remain manageable without becoming what is commonly referred to as "spaghetti code," where complexity makes the application's growth slow and painful. Angular helps in this regard as well.

- **Performance**: In the current era, speed plays a critical role in any industry. In the web development industry, there are two types of speed: development time and the application's response time to user input. Angular shortens the timelines for both.

- **Reusability**: In recent years, the DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) paradigm has played a central role in web development. Angular's structure and architecture promote code reuse.

- **Community**: Over the years, a community has formed around Angular, contributing to its development and improvement through various versions. The discussions and materials generated by this community have become one of Angular's strengths.

Many of these points listed can be summarized as maintainability, and here lies the most important goal of the Angular framework: to provide a set of tools and guidelines for creating applications that are maintainable over time.

This is the primary reason why Angular is one of the most chosen front-end development frameworks by companies for their sophisticated enterprise applications.


## The history of Angular

Angular is an open-source JavaScript framework developed by Google. Its history begins in 2010 when Google released AngularJS, the first version of Angular. AngularJS revolutionized web development by introducing the concept of "two-way data binding" and enabling developers to create dynamic and complex web applications.

However, over the years, AngularJS showed some limitations and performance issues, leading to the need for a complete rewrite. In 2016, Google introduced Angular 2 (without the "JS" suffix), which was completely rewritten using TypeScript and introduced a series of significant improvements. Angular 2 redefined the structure of web applications and introduced a component-based approach to building user interfaces.

Since then, Google and the open-source community have continued to develop and enhance Angular, regularly releasing new versions. 


